README.md, before:

# WIPP REST API
A Java Spring Boot application for managing WIPP data and workflows. 
The API follows the HATEOAS architecture using the HAL format.

## Requirements
Requirements for development environment setup.

### Java environment
* Java JDK 8 (1.8)
* Maven version compatible with Java 8

### Database
* MongoDB 3.6

### Identity and Access Management
* Keycloak 11.0.2
* Default dev configuration expects Keycloak at `http://localhost:8081/auth` (see 
`wipp-backend-application/src/main/resources/application.properties`. Sample 
Docker run command:
`docker run -p 8081:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_USER=admin -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:11.0.2` (see https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-docker)
* Import WIPP realm available in folder `docs/auth-acl`
* RBAC-ACLs descriptions available in file `docs/auth-acl/acl.md`

### Kubernetes cluster
* For development purposes, a single-node cluster can be easily installed using [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube) or [Docker for Mac on macOS](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/#kubernetes)
* We are using [Argo workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/) to manage workflows on a Kubernetes cluster, please install the Argo UI and Controller using the following commands:
```shell
kubectl create namespace argo
kubectl apply -n argo -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo/v2.3.0/manifests/install.yaml
```
Please follow the instructions for version 2.3.0 [here](https://github.com/argoproj/argo/blob/release-2.4/demo.md) to:
 - install the Argo binary
 - configure the service account to run workflows

### Data storage
* Create a `WIPP-plugins` folder in your home directory for data storage (`dev` Maven profile is expecting the data folder location to be `$HOME/WIPP-plugins`)
* Create the WIPP data storage Persistent Volume (PV) and Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) in your Kubernetes cluster following the templates for hostPath PV and PVC available in [the WIPP repository](https://github.com/usnistgov/WIPP/tree/master/deployment/wipp-ci-single-node/volumes):
    * `path` of `hostPath` in `hostPath-wippdata-volume.yaml` should be modified to match path of `WIPP-plugins` folder created above
    * `storage` of `capacity` is set to 100Gi by default, this value can be modified in `hostPath-wippdata-volume.yaml` and `hostPath-wippdata-pvc.yaml`
    * run `hostPath-deploy.sh` to setup the WIPP data PV and PVC

## Compiling
```shell
mvn clean install
```
## Running
```shell
cd wipp-backend-application
mvn spring-boot:run
```
- The WIPP REST API will be launched with the `dev` profile and available at http://localhost:8080/api  

- Swagger API documentation will be available at:
 - http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html (Swagger UI) and,
 - http://localhost:8080/v2/api-docs (OpenAPI spec)

## Docker packaging
The Maven `prod` profile should be used for Docker packaging, even for testing/development purposes:
```sh
mvn clean package -P prod
docker build --no-cache . -t wipp_backend
```
For a Docker deployment of WIPP on a Kubernetes cluster, scripts and configuration files are available in the [WIPP repository](https://github.com/usnistgov/WIPP/tree/master/deployment).

## Deployment
1. Create a `.env` file in the root of the repository, using `sample-env` as an example.
1. Configure `kubectl` with a `kubeconfig` pointing to the correct Kubernetes cluster. Optionally, pass the location of the `kubeconfig` file in the `.env`. This value defaults to the standard `kubeconfig` location. 
1. Run the script using: `./deploy.sh`.

### Application Performance Monitoring (APM)
The Elastic APM Java agent is integrated into the Docker image as an optional setting. The Elastic APM agent will push metrics to an APM server, which feeds into Elasticsearch and Kibana. Configuration of the Elastic APM Java Agent to connect to the APM server is controlled via environment variables. These variables are optional if Elastic APM is not needed.

| Environment Variable   | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| ELASTIC_APM_SERVICE_NAME  | Service name tag attached to all metrics sent. |
| ELASTIC_APM_SERVER_URLS  | Url of Elastic APM server.  |
| ELASTIC_APM_APPLICATION_PACKAGES | (Optional) Determines stack trace frame. Multiple packages can be set. |
| ELASTIC_APM_SECRET_TOKEN  | (Optional) Secret token for Elastic APM server. | 

## WIPP Development flow
We are following the [Gitflow branching model](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) for the WIPP development.  
To accommodate the specificities of the Maven version management, we are using the [JGitFlow plugin](https://bitbucket.org/atlassian/jgit-flow/wiki/Home).

### Contributing
Please follow the [Contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Disclaimer

[NIST Disclaimer](LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

feat: Fully containerized build fix: Replace obsolete MAINTAINER tag docs: Instructions on how to use each of the Dockerfiles

README.md, after:

# WIPP REST API
A Java Spring Boot application for managing WIPP data and workflows. 
The API follows the HATEOAS architecture using the HAL format.

## Requirements
Requirements for development environment setup.

### Java environment
* Java JDK 8 (1.8)
* Maven version compatible with Java 8

### Database
* MongoDB 3.6

### Identity and Access Management
* Keycloak 11.0.2
* Default dev configuration expects Keycloak at `http://localhost:8081/auth` (see 
`wipp-backend-application/src/main/resources/application.properties`. Sample 
Docker run command:
`docker run -p 8081:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_USER=admin -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:11.0.2` (see https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started/getting-started-docker)
* Import WIPP realm available in folder `docs/auth-acl`
* RBAC-ACLs descriptions available in file `docs/auth-acl/acl.md`

### Kubernetes cluster
* For development purposes, a single-node cluster can be easily installed using [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube) or [Docker for Mac on macOS](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/#kubernetes)
* We are using [Argo workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/) to manage workflows on a Kubernetes cluster, please install the Argo UI and Controller using the following commands:
```shell
kubectl create namespace argo
kubectl apply -n argo -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo/v2.3.0/manifests/install.yaml
```
Please follow the instructions for version 2.3.0 [here](https://github.com/argoproj/argo/blob/release-2.4/demo.md) to:
 - install the Argo binary
 - configure the service account to run workflows

### Data storage
* Create a `WIPP-plugins` folder in your home directory for data storage (`dev` Maven profile is expecting the data folder location to be `$HOME/WIPP-plugins`)
* Create the WIPP data storage Persistent Volume (PV) and Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) in your Kubernetes cluster following the templates for hostPath PV and PVC available in [the WIPP repository](https://github.com/usnistgov/WIPP/tree/master/deployment/wipp-ci-single-node/volumes):
    * `path` of `hostPath` in `hostPath-wippdata-volume.yaml` should be modified to match path of `WIPP-plugins` folder created above
    * `storage` of `capacity` is set to 100Gi by default, this value can be modified in `hostPath-wippdata-volume.yaml` and `hostPath-wippdata-pvc.yaml`
    * run `hostPath-deploy.sh` to setup the WIPP data PV and PVC

## Compiling
```shell
mvn clean install
```
## Running
```shell
cd wipp-backend-application
mvn spring-boot:run
```
- The WIPP REST API will be launched with the `dev` profile and available at http://localhost:8080/api  

- Swagger API documentation will be available at:
 - http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html (Swagger UI) and,
 - http://localhost:8080/v2/api-docs (OpenAPI spec)

## Docker packaging
There are two ways to build Docker images for WIPP-backend:

- For local development, first compile the project (so it produces `wipp-backend-application/target/wipp-backend-application-...-exec.war`), then build Docker image from `Dockerfile.localdev`.

The Maven `prod` profile should be used for Docker packaging, even for testing/development purposes:
```sh
mvn clean package -P prod
docker build --no-cache -f Dockerfile.localdev . -t wipp_backend
```

- For CI builds or if you don't have Java/Maven installed on host, simply build Docker image from `Dockerfile`
```sh
docker build --no-cache . -t wipp_backend
```


For a Docker deployment of WIPP on a Kubernetes cluster, scripts and configuration files are available in the [WIPP repository](https://github.com/usnistgov/WIPP/tree/master/deployment).

## Deployment
1. Create a `.env` file in the root of the repository, using `sample-env` as an example.
1. Configure `kubectl` with a `kubeconfig` pointing to the correct Kubernetes cluster. Optionally, pass the location of the `kubeconfig` file in the `.env`. This value defaults to the standard `kubeconfig` location. 
1. Run the script using: `./deploy.sh`.

### Application Performance Monitoring (APM)
The Elastic APM Java agent is integrated into the Docker image as an optional setting. The Elastic APM agent will push metrics to an APM server, which feeds into Elasticsearch and Kibana. Configuration of the Elastic APM Java Agent to connect to the APM server is controlled via environment variables. These variables are optional if Elastic APM is not needed.

| Environment Variable   | Description |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| ELASTIC_APM_SERVICE_NAME  | Service name tag attached to all metrics sent. |
| ELASTIC_APM_SERVER_URLS  | Url of Elastic APM server.  |
| ELASTIC_APM_APPLICATION_PACKAGES | (Optional) Determines stack trace frame. Multiple packages can be set. |
| ELASTIC_APM_SECRET_TOKEN  | (Optional) Secret token for Elastic APM server. | 

## WIPP Development flow
We are following the [Gitflow branching model](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) for the WIPP development.  
To accommodate the specificities of the Maven version management, we are using the [JGitFlow plugin](https://bitbucket.org/atlassian/jgit-flow/wiki/Home).

### Contributing
Please follow the [Contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Disclaimer

[NIST Disclaimer](LICENSE.md)
